this is me well me 30 years ago this was
my school in 1983 Pine Hill Elementary
in Cottage Grove Minnesota I had tons of
good memories of my days at playing Hill
rocking out to my cassette tapes on the
playground playing Oregon Trail and the
new Apple to computers spending hours in
the library dreaming of what I would be
when I grew up this all made me wonder
what it's like for kids today so I
decided to go back to the classroom and
see what school is like in 2014
my name is Riley and I'm a third grader
Riley's my guide today here's a glimpse
of what her day is gonna be like
let's start from the beginning though
there are some key people that help
Riley throughout the school day my name
is mrs. Harry Annika and I'm Riley's
teacher my name is Stacy de Courcey and
I'm Riley's principal
my name is mr. Belene and I am Riley's
math teacher you the starter day Riley
ventures to the nearby second-grade
classroom to help students with their
reading it's four or five kids that go
out in the morning and they help first
graders read Riley is actually working
with a second grader it helps those
first graders just have someone to read
with for ten minutes every day is a
leader
she's a young leader she's a terrific
kid very vocal very polite and kind and
generous and I just see just wonderful
things in Riley because you fell asleep
right there after delante is reading
tests
Riley heads to Mister boolean's math
class the kids we were working on our
triangles and understanding the
difference between naming a triangle
based off of its lines and naming a
triangle based off of its angles like an
acute triangle a up to sinc triangle a
lot of different triangles we have whole
group lessons to start off usually but
then we usually break off like this
morning with our math class we had a
lesson where we did together in activity
and then they broke off and did their
own thing depending on what their needs
are as mr. Bullen made his way around
the classroom it was apparent that
technology plays a big part in learning
today every teacher just last year got
these cool light projectors you can go
on to this special app on your iPad and
just take a picture of something it
shows up on the board after math class
Riley returns to misses her Anika's room
where it's time for a quick snack and
about perseverance then it's back to see
mr. baleen for a second math class we're
adding fractions and putting them on
number lines so we like added the
fraction and then found where it'd be
sometimes we have computer lab where we
have typing or we just get to do random
games it helps you with your reading
writing and stuff like that every class
has it shrink over in cause some days at
this time of the day students would go
to Fayed Spanish or music on this day
it's time for an art lesson where mrs.
Moreno teaches the grade-schoolers how
to do a zentangle a way to create images
by drawing structured patterns
I had like different lines you got to do
fun lines and just got to color them in
your food is very busy here it's a kind
of a transition you're with organization
- we have to fit a lot in in one day
third grade is where we go from learning
to read to reading to learn
they learn how to do cursive in third
grade we have to fit science and social
studies in there we have writing so it's
every minute is busy it seems like only
two hours but yet it's seven it's
amazing how fast it goes by third grade
is just a fabulous year and I just think
third graders would also tell you that I
love their grade
I think Pine Hill is a very good school
we have a it's a smaller community so we
get to know the kids better get to know
the families more super cool I've been
going here ever since kindergarten
my grandpa went to school here my dad
did
my grandma did a lot of my family has
and all of those family members probably
remember one of the best parts of the
school day recess due to cold weather
students got to burn off some energy in
the gym on this day and that's when I
turned my camera
I like running around having fun
actually getting to exercise next it was
off to lunch
my dad made that's awesome like chili
things emmalin is the nobody here to you
a syllable why
socially third grade is just such a fun
year because those friendship groups
kind of get solidified and kids kind of
find their interest and kind of decide a
little bit more what their personality
is going to be like I want to be either
a teacher or principal but I really want
to like a teenager I want to be on a
high school traveling softball team or
college traveling softball team like
softball is my life for some reason
after lunch the third graders worked on
reading comprehension and then headed to
the gym for school assembly to celebrate
Pine Hills recent reading achievement we
had this little readathon thing the kind
of thing and we had to reach a million
minutes by the end of February and we
went over it by like a thousand mrs.
McCarthy is gonna be giving all bikes
and stuff like that finally it was back
to mrs. her Anika's classroom to brush
up on spelling and take a moment to do
one of Riley's favorite things
reading we expect them to read a lot at
home and at school just to get their
fluency up as well and at 2:30 it's time
to get ready to go home I want them to
leave knowing that they've been cared
for and that there are adults there who
will support them and that will always
be there for them they can come back as
adults like you to come back and say
hello and always feel supported I want
them to leave with a love of learning
and just the the thirst and the hunger
to continue to move on with their
education we try to make Pine Hill a
really fun place every day from the
morning announcements to the assembly at
the end of the day you know we're hoping
that there's lots of learning taking
place but also
so fun so now we know what a day at
school in 2014 looks like so the next
time your child comes home and you ask
them what they did today and they say
nothing you'll know better